Step 1: Review the data in the Windows cluster log (Cluster.log)

Get-ClusterLog -Node <SQL Server node name> -TimeSpan 15

#The -TimeSpan 15 parameter in this step assumes that the problem that's being diagnosed occurred during the previous 15 minutes.

#By default, the log file is created in %WINDIR%\cluster\reports.

##Open the Cluster.log file in Notepad to review the Windows cluster log.

##select Edit > Find, and then search for the "failoverCount" string at the end of the file. In the results, you should find a message that resembles the following message:


Step 2: Check the Maximum Failures in the Specified Period property

* Start Failover Cluster Manager.

* In the navigation pane, select Roles.

* In the Roles pane, right-click the clustered resource, and then select Properties.

* Select the Failover tab, and select the Maximum Failures in the Specified Period value.

(Note: The default behavior specifies that if the clustered resource fails three times within six hours, it should remain in the failed state. For an availability group, this means that the replica is left in the RESOLVING state.)

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Case 2: Insufficient NT Authority\SYSTEM account permissions

The SQL Server Database Engine resource DLL connects to the instance of SQL Server that is hosting the primary replica by using ODBC to monitor health. The logon credentials that are used for this connection are the local SQL Server NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM login account. By default, this local login account is granted the following permissions:

Alter Any Availability Group
Connect SQL
View server state

If the NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM login account lacks any of these permissions on the automatic failover partner (the secondary replica), then SQL Server can't start health detection when an automatic failover occurs. Therefore, the secondary replica can't transition to the primary role. To investigate and diagnose whether this is the cause, review the Windows cluster log. To do this, follow these steps:

